So given the sort of understanding
of why people leave jobs.
What organizations then want to
do is go and start looking back.
Okay, who's leaving?
And where are they leaving from?
And how can we use this to help us think
about what we want to do about it?
And so the first thing the organizations
often end up looking is just kind of
where they are leaving from.
When the big questions is managers.
Do we see the attrition as
associated with different managers?
And as we saw right in the beginning,
spoiler alert.
Yes.
Kind of every organization that does this,
the big insight they come back with this.
Wow there's huge difference
across our managers in terms of
their rate of attrition.
Now obviously there's going to be
some sort of natural variation.
I think Kade is talking with you
about the fact that in any data set you're
just going to see random variation.
There's a point at which you don't
want to read too much into it.
If you look at it, you will see that there
are some managers who are often real
outliers, to the extent to which you
think this is more than random variation.
And that does tell you
something about where to start
dealing with your attrition problem.
You also as I say, want to think
about how we're hiring people.
Are there people that we're hiring
who are particularly likely to leave?
And do we want that to inform our
hiring processors to whether or
not we want to look for
slightly different attributes?
Obviously, we want to
understand all their functions,
types of work, types of projects that
are really leading to attrition.
What can we do to lessen their demands?
And so on.
Is it our high performers,
is it our low performers that leave?
And there's also geography.
Is it the fact that, for example, commute
distances can be a big driver of time?
While I'm on that subject,
one of the interesting and
challenging issues of people analytics
is worrying about adverse impact.
And so, suddenly within the US and
I think many jurisdictions,
there are important regulations
about discrimination.
In the US those regulations are not just
about deliberate discrimination by race,
ethnicity, gender and so on.
But they're also about putting in place
procedures that have the affect of
disproportionately screening
out certain groups.
Also, as you think about do we
want to favor people within a certain
commuting distance.
You want to be worried about what
does this mean about kind of are we
segregating it.
Are there certain races that this is
going to make life more difficult for?
And indeed I would say throughout doing
people analytics on a practical level.
At a certain point you probably want to
just chat with a lawyer to think about
where might you get into trouble
implementing some of these things, and
where might you.
That aside,
there are still all sorts of exciting
things you can do in predicting attrition.
Now there are some organizations these
days that look at social network behavior.
And so,
there's a belief when somebody suddenly
starts updating their LinkedIn profile.
That's often a sign that they're
thinking about other opportunities.
Is that a point at which
you want to intervene?
And so, yeah.
All sorts of fun things you can
do if you're creative to try and
understand who's likely to leave and
how we can intervene.
In terms of doing this analysis.
Again, there are a variety of
different things that you can do.
And at the lowest level is
take on different groups and
types of workers and calculate what
percentage of them leave every year.
These kind of standard attrition
statistics that you see,
percent turn over.
Okay, and again, I'd definitely
encourage you to do tests for
statistical significance to
understand which of these differences
are meaningful and which are not.
I think a big concern with these
straight attrition percentages
is they really don't take into account
the fact that people are much more likely
to leave early in their tenure.
As you can certainly
imagine certain groups, for
some reason a couple of people leave.
They're then going to fill
these with new workers.
Those new workers are themselves
much more likely to leave.
And so, it may end up looking like you
have a big attrition problem in one group.
Just because on average,
workers tend to have been there less time.
A better approach is actually to
look at this on a cohort basis.
So produce statistics saying okay, what
proportion of people last three months,
last six months, last a year, and so on.
And compare those across groups and
managers.
And so on.
Even better, kind of the same sort of
approach that we talked about before with
predicting performance is to think about
what are all of the various different
processes, or all the different
predictors that might affect attrition.
And throw them into
a multivariate regression,
where you're trying to predict things like
who stays six months, who stays a year.
So multivariate structure helps
enable you start untangling those.
Is it age?
Is it education?
Is it experience level?
And so on, and see kind of what
seems to have the strongest effect
on who stays and who leaves.
Even better than this, if you're
kind of doing this professionally.
Is to use a slightly different class
of models called survival models
to really help you
understand what's going on.
I just want to spend a minute or
two talking about what those are.
So survival analysis take the name I think
in part from the fact that they're used
heavily in epidemiology.
Where your question is
the worst case scenario.
We assign a treatment to somebody.
How long does it take them to die?
And who survives?
And for how long?
So, what you see is something like
the curve that I've got on the slide.
Where over time,
you want to understand what proportion
of the sample stay at the firm.
And you're probably going to see
something like an exponential decay.
Where so say, people earlier on the job
decide whether they like it or not.
They're more likely to leave early.
And then the longer they stay,
the more likely they are to remain there.
So turnover drops over time.
So what survival analysis do is they first
try and fit this kind of time function.
So we can see over kind a range
of people who've been there for
different amounts of time.
Basically, what's the likelihood
of their leaving?
And how does that change?
And then they say, okay.
And now how the various factors
shift that kind of curve.
And so we could imagine some
sort of variable, I don't know.
Let's say,
experience level at the point of hiring,
which makes them either more,
or less likely to stay.
So in this case, if it reduces
the general propensity to leave.
What this does is it shifts
the curve up with it.
And so every point in time people
more likely to still be at the firm.
The nice thing about this kind of
analysis is that you're not just looking
three months, six months,
one year chunk separately.
We look at them all together.
Account for
that kind of time dependence of turn over.
And then say, what are the characteristics
of individuals, the groups they're in,
the managers.
All those things that
we talked about before.
Which of them ultimately make it
more likely that people are going
to leave at some point?
And so what I've tried to emphasize over
the course of this module is the different
ways in which bringing data to the
question could inform how we make some of
the most important staffing decisions.
That not only shape how people
perform in their jobs, but
shape their careers as well.
Ever since there've been organizations,
we've been doing this based on instinct,
hunch, and so on.
Now that we have so much data about what
people are doing, strong analytical tools.
There really is the opportunity to
bring more rigor to the process.
Make it more data driven.
And certainly all of the early
evidence suggested doing so
improves the quality of
decisions that we make.
Helping us get the right
people into the right jobs.
And helping them stay there.
In ways that again,
are going to help the organizations.
And also going to make for
better careers for the people within them.